Real work rarely stays in one mode.
A project may begin with exploration, use asking to remove one uncertainty, move into collaboration to shape the artifact, and finish with delegation for repeatable execution.
Start with the least autonomous mode that can produce the next useful result.
This is not fear of automation.
It is a way to learn the task boundary before expanding execution.
Evidence earns more autonomy.
Use four switch signals.
Switch when the desired output becomes clearer, when a judgment call appears, when evidence contradicts the plan, or when the consequence of error changes.
Each signal changes the proper human-agent balance.
Imagine preparing a customer launch.
Explore the audience and risks.
Ask for one missing comparison.
Collaborate on the positioning and acceptance criteria.
Delegate the asset checks and scheduled publication.
Then return to human review at the release gate.
Record each handoff in one line: current mode, next result, owner, evidence, and stop condition.
That tiny log prevents silent expansion and makes recovery easier when a task is interrupted.
The loop is simple: choose, run, inspect, and reroute.
Do not reward an agent for staying autonomous.
Reward the workflow for producing a correct, useful, and accountable outcome.
First, Start with the least autonomous mode that can work.
Second, Switch when uncertainty or consequence changes.
Third, Record evidence before expanding autonomy.